
## Introduction

<center>

![people walking on a park trail](www/Walk-on-path.png)

</center>

*Thrive MSP 2040* directs the Council to collaborate with the
Metropolitan Parks and Open Space Commission, regional park implementing
agencies, and state partners to strengthen equitable use of regional
parks and trails.

Accordingly, the Council implemented an equity analysis requirement for
all park and trail master plans. Master plans are required to identify
the demographics of areas served by the proposed park or trail with a
focus on underserved populations on the basis of age, race, ethnicity,
income, ability, national origin, and other pertinent characteristics
(see “User Guide” for more).

This app is intended to assist planning staff complete of the equity
analysis requirement in conjunction with the <a>Regional Parks Equity
Toolkit</a>. Additionally, other stakeholders are invited to use this
app in service of strengthening equitable use through understanding
populations and their proximities to the regional park system.

## User Guide

**Map** - is an interactive tool that maps key demographic variables
alongside regional parks and trails.

**Summary** - is a data visualization that produces discrete demographic
characteristics for user-defined inputs across the regional park and
trail system. The tool incorporates existing, planned, and search areas
for parks and trails. Within this tab, there are **weighted averages**
which will be suitable for most users, a **buffer map** which
illustrates the buffer zones geospatially, and the option for users to
**download tabular data**

**Population Growth** - is an interactive map which allows users to view
estimated population growth through 2040 alongside regional parks and
trails.

**Notes** - provides more information about the background of this tool.
Future ideas here include an annotated [User
Guide](https://datalab.h-gac.com/equity/Regional_Equity_Tool_Userguide.pdf)
or an annotated video tutorial? For ideas, H-GAC has some [great
tools](https://www.h-gac.com/interactive-web-applications/default.aspx).

**Please click on the individual tabs on the top to start using this
tool.**

## ACS Variable Dictionary

Statistics produced for American Community Survey and included in ACS
tables are survey-based estimates and are subject to error. The errors
derive from research design (including instrument bias, data frame, and
sampling), the survey data collection (non-response bias and response
errors), and processing by the Census Bureau (data coding, compilation
processes, and case weighting), as well as statistical inference error
and uncertainty (which are related to sample size and variance within
the measured attributes).

The American Community Survey (ACS, 2014-2018) is the primary data
source for this tool. Specific variables which can be evaluated in this
tool include:

**Age:** specific park/trail amenities are attractive to different age
groups (e.g. younger populations may prefer play structures while older
populations may prefer benches).

  - Under 15
  - Age 15-24
  - Age 25-64
  - Over 65

**Race:** BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, and People of Color) populations are
historically undeserved by regional parks and trails.

  - American Indian
  - Asian
  - Black
  - Other + Multiracial
  - White - consider using (100% - %White) to evaluate %BIPOC

**Ethnicity:** ethnicity is measured separately from race in the ACS,
although race and ethnicity are often linked in practice. Hispanic
populations are historically underserved by regional parks and trails.

  - Hispanic
  - Non-Hispanic

**Income:** lower income households are historically underserved by
regional parks/trails.

  - Mean household income

**Transportation:** households without vehicles may access regional
parks/trails differently than households with vehicles.

  - Households without a vehicle

**Language:** language proficiency may inform written and oral
communications by regional parks/trails

  - Speaking English less than very well
  - Speaking Spanish

**Ability:** Populations with disabilities are historically underserved
by regional parks and trails. These data are suppressed at the
block-group level, so cannot be evaluated here although we do note the
importance of considering ability to strengthen equitable use of
regional parks and trails.")
